Ways to interact with AWS services

To learn about each category, look below:

-AWS Management Console:
The AWS Management Console is a web-based interface for accessing and managing AWS services. You can quickly access recently used services and search for other services by name, keyword, or acronym. The console includes wizards and automated workflows that can simplify the process of completing tasks.

You can also use the AWS Console mobile application to perform tasks such as monitoring resources, viewing alarms, and accessing billing information. Multiple identities can stay logged into the AWS Console mobile app at the same time.

-AWS Command Line Interface:
To save time when making API requests, you can use the AWS Command Line Interface (AWS CLI). AWS CLI enables you to control multiple AWS services directly from the command line within one tool. AWS CLI is available for users on Windows, macOS, and Linux. 

By using AWS CLI, you can automate the actions that your services and applications perform through scripts. For example, you can use commands to launch an Amazon EC2 instance, connect an Amazon EC2 instance to a specific Auto Scaling group, and more.

-Software Development Kits:
Another option for accessing and managing AWS services is the software development kits (SDKs). SDKs make it easier for you to use AWS services through an API designed for your programming language or platform. SDKs enable you to use AWS services with your existing applications or create entirely new applications that will run on AWS.

To help you get started with using SDKs, AWS provides documentation and sample code for each supported programming language. Supported programming languages include C++, Java, .NET, and more.

-AWS Elastic Beanstalk:
With AWS Elastic Beanstalk, you provide code and configuration settings, and Elastic Beanstalk deploys the resources necessary to perform the following tasks:

Adjust capacity
Load balancing
Automatic scaling
Application health monitoring

-AWS CloudFormation:
With AWS CloudFormation, you can treat your infrastructure as code. This means that you can build an environment by writing lines of code instead of using the AWS Management Console to individually provision resources.

AWS CloudFormation provisions your resources in a safe, repeatable manner, enabling you to frequently build your infrastructure and applications without having to perform manual actions. It determines the right operations to perform when managing your stack and rolls back changes automatically if it detects errors.

Additional resources

Review these resources to learn more about the concepts that were explored in Module 3.

Global Infrastructure - <https://aws.amazon.com/about-aws/global-infrastructure/>
Interactive map of the AWS Global Infrastructure - <https://www.infrastructure.aws/>
Regions and Availability Zones - <https://aws.amazon.com/about-aws/global-infrastructure/regions_az>
AWS Networking and Content Delivery Blog - <https://aws.amazon.com/blogs/networking-and-content-delivery/>
Tools to Build on AWS - <https://aws.amazon.com/tools/>