-> Amazon Redshift
Amazon Redshift is a data warehousing service that you can use for big data analytics. It offers the ability to collect data from many sources and helps you to understand relationships and trends across your data.

Video transcript:
We just spent a lot of time discussing the kinds of workflow that require fast, reliable, current data. Databases that can handle 1,000s of transactions per second, storage that is highly available and massively durable. But sometimes, we have a business need that goes outside what is happening right now to what did happen. This data analysis is the realm of a whole different class of databases. Sure, you could use the one size fits all model of a single database for everything, but modern databases that are engineered for high speed, real time ingestion, and queries may not be the best fit. 

Let me explain. In order to handle the velocity of real time read/write functionality, most relational databases tend to function fabulously at certain capacities. How much content it actually stores. The problem with historical analytics, data that answers questions like, "Show me how production has improved since we started", is the data collection never stops. In fact, with modern telemetry and the explosion of IoT, the volume of data will overwhelm even the beefiest traditional relational database. 

It gets worse. Not just the volume, but the variety of data can be a problem. You want to run business intelligence or BI projects against data coming from different data stores like your inventory, your financial, and your retail sales systems? A single query against multiple databases sounds nice, but traditional databases don't handle them easily. 

Once data becomes too complex to handle with traditional relational databases, you've entered the world of data warehouses. Data warehouses are engineered specifically for this kind of big data, where you are looking at historical analytics as opposed to operational analysis. 

Now, let's be clear. Historical may be as soon as: show me last hour's sales numbers across all the stores. The key thing is, the data is now set. We're not selling any more from the last hour because that is now in the past. Compare that question to, "How many bags of coffee do we still have in our inventory right now?" Which could be changing as we speak. As long as your business question is looking backwards at all, then a data warehouse is the right solution for that line of business intelligence. 

Now there are many data warehouse solutions out on the market. If you already have a favorite one, running it on AWS is just a matter of getting the data transferred. But beyond that, there may still be a lot of undifferentiated heavy lifting that goes into keeping a data warehouse tuned, resilient, and continuously scaling. Wouldn't it be nice if your data warehouse team could focus on the data instead of the unavoidable care and feeding of the engine? 

Introducing Amazon Redshift. This is data warehousing as a service. It's massively scalable. Redshift nodes in multiple petabyte sizes is very common. In fact, in cooperation with Amazon Redshift Spectrum, you can directly run a single SQL query against exabytes of unstructured data running in data lakes. 

But it's more than just being able to handle massively larger data sets. Redshift uses a variety of innovations that allow you to achieve up to 10 times higher performance than traditional databases, when it comes to these kinds of business intelligence workloads. 

I'm not gonna go into details of how the magic works. We have whole classes that you or your data teams can take that explain how it is built, and why it can return such improved results. The key for you is to understand that when you need big data BI solutions, Redshift allows you to get started with a single API call. Less time waiting for results, more time getting answers.