->AWS Database Migration Service (AWS DMS)
AWS Database Migration Service (AWS DMS) enables you to migrate relational databases, nonrelational databases, and other types of data stores.

With AWS DMS, you move data between a source database and a target database. The source and target databases can be of the same type or different types. During the migration, your source database remains operational, reducing downtime for any applications that rely on the database. 

For example, suppose that you have a MySQL database that is stored on premises in an Amazon EC2 instance or in Amazon RDS. Consider the MySQL database to be your source database. Using AWS DMS, you could migrate your data to a target database, such as an Amazon Aurora database.

->Other use cases for AWS DMS:

-Development and test database migrations:
Enabling developers to test applications against production data without affecting production users

-Database consolidation:
Combining several databases into a single database

-Continuous replication:
Sending ongoing copies of your data to other target sources instead of doing a one-time migration

OBS:
But let's start with databases that are of the same type. These migrations are known as homogenous and can be from MySQL to Amazon RDS for MySQL, Microsoft SQL Server to Amazon RDS for SQL Server or even Oracle to Amazon RDS for Oracle. The process is fairly straightforward since schema structures, data types, and database code is compatible between source and target. 

As I mentioned, the source database can be located on-premises, running on Amazon EC2 Instances, or it can be an Amazon RDS database. The target itself can be a database in Amazon EC2 or Amazon RDS. In this case, you create a migration task with connections to the source and target databases. Then start the migration with a click of the button. AWS Database Migration Service takes care of the rest. 

The second type of migration occurs when source and target databases are of different types. This is called heterogeneous migrations, and it's a two-step process. Since the schema structures, data types, and database code are different between source and target, we first need to convert them using the AWS Schema Conversion Tool. This will convert the source schema and code to match that of the target database. The next step is then to use DMS to migrate data from the source database to the target database. 

